https://leetcode.com/problems/two-sum/
🟩Easy

Given an array of integers `nums` and an integer `target`, return _indices of the two numbers such that they add up to `target`_.

You may assume that each input would have **_exactly_ one solution**, and you may not use the _same_ element twice.
You can return the answer in any order.

**Example 1:**
**Input:** nums = [2,7,11,15], target = 9
**Output:** [0,1]
**Explanation:** Because nums[0] + nums[1] == 9, we return [0, 1].

**Example 2:**
**Input:** nums = [3,2,4], target = 6
**Output:** [1,2]

**Example 3:**
**Input:** nums = [3,3], target = 6
**Output:** [0,1]

**Constraints:**

- `2 <= nums.length <= 104`
- `-109 <= nums[i] <= 109`
- `-109 <= target <= 109`
- **Only one valid answer exists.**

**Follow-up:** Can you come up with an algorithm that is less than `O(n2)` time complexity?

---

My Final Solution :
```cpp
// Complexity O(n), Memory O(n)
// Submitted 09/01/24 1:30pm
// Runtime of 9ms (73.93%), with RAM usage of 11.51MB (16.14%)
// Submitted 25/01/24 2:54pm
// Runtime of 8ms (80.91%), with RAM usage of 13.53MB (5.55%)
std::vector<int> twoSum_v3(const std::vector<int>& nums, int target) {

	// #DIFF_v2 Using a map to remember past iteration,
	// Leveraging RAM to reduce complexity from O(n)^2, down to O(n)

	std::map<int, int> previouslyComparedValues;

	for (int i = 0; i < nums.size(); ++i)
	{
		if (previouslyComparedValues.find(target - nums[i]) == previouslyComparedValues.end())
		{
			previouslyComparedValues.insert({ nums[i], i });
		}
		else
		{
			return std::vector<int>({ previouslyComparedValues.find(target - nums[i])->second, i });
		}
	}

	return std::vector<int>();
}
```

Solutions from others :
- [x] LeetCode Editorial : https://leetcode.com/problems/two-sum/editorial/

- [x] NeetCode : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KLlXCFG5TnA&ab_channel=NeetCode
#TODO Examine this example to see how it got a score of: 4ms (95.60%), RAM 14.03(5.09%)
```cpp
class Solution { // https://neetcode.io/practice -> NeetCode 150 -> TwoSum C++ code
public:
    vector<int> twoSum(vector<int>& nums, int target) {
        int n = nums.size();
        unordered_map<int, int> mp; // val -> index

        for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
            int complement = target - nums[i];
            if (mp.find(complement) != mp.end()) {
                return {mp[complement], i};
            }
            mp.insert({nums[i], i});
        }
        return {};
    }
};
```
Looks like the removal of additional .find() could contribute to faster time.
#### Notes :
It's interesting to look at the memory complexity as the number of indices copied into the hash map. I wonder how more complex problems look at memory complexity. Do we calculate O(x) by the number of values created, and do the sizes matter? It makes sense here that our worst case of allocations is O(n)-1 because we could end up adding all elements of the array to the map, except for the last element which is not required to be stored before returning with the solution.

## Conclusion
It seems other users found more efficient solutions so it would be nice to see how they achieved the 90%+ speed rating, but I am not willing to pay for LeetCode at this time so after finding 2 other solutions online I think I am satisfied with my current solutions at this time.

#TODO Try another solution, swapping out the map for a vector/array an compare performance. The idea came from [Why You Should AVOID Linked Lists](https://youtu.be/cvZArAipOjo?t=516) where it was suggested that vector "lookups" could compare to and even outperform map operations in some cases.