https://leetcode.com/problems/integer-to-roman/
🟨Medium

Seven different symbols represent Roman numerals with the following values:

|Symbol|Value|
|---|---|
|I|1|
|V|5|
|X|10|
|L|50|
|C|100|
|D|500|
|M|1000|

Roman numerals are formed by appending the conversions of decimal place values from highest to lowest. Converting a decimal place value into a Roman numeral has the following rules:

- If the value does not start with 4 or 9, select the symbol of the maximal value that can be subtracted from the input, append that symbol to the result, subtract its value, and convert the remainder to a Roman numeral.
- If the value starts with 4 or 9 use the **subtractive form** representing one symbol subtracted from the following symbol, for example, 4 is 1 (`I`) less than 5 (`V`): `IV` and 9 is 1 (`I`) less than 10 (`X`): `IX`. Only the following subtractive forms are used: 4 (`IV`), 9 (`IX`), 40 (`XL`), 90 (`XC`), 400 (`CD`) and 900 (`CM`).
- Only powers of 10 (`I`, `X`, `C`, `M`) can be appended consecutively at most 3 times to represent multiples of 10. You cannot append 5 (`V`), 50 (`L`), or 500 (`D`) multiple times. If you need to append a symbol 4 times use the **subtractive form**.

Given an integer, convert it to a Roman numeral.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** num = 3749

**Output:** "MMMDCCXLIX"

**Explanation:**

3000 = MMM as 1000 (M) + 1000 (M) + 1000 (M)
 700 = DCC as 500 (D) + 100 (C) + 100 (C)
  40 = XL as 10 (X) less of 50 (L)
   9 = IX as 1 (I) less of 10 (X)
Note: 49 is not 1 (I) less of 50 (L) because the conversion is based on decimal places

**Example 2:**

**Input:** num = 58

**Output:** "LVIII"

**Explanation:**

50 = L
 8 = VIII

**Example 3:**

**Input:** num = 1994

**Output:** "MCMXCIV"

**Explanation:**

1000 = M
 900 = CM
  90 = XC
   4 = IV

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= num <= 3999`

---

My Final Solution :
```cpp
// Pending...
```
#### Notes :

So I'll start on paper first this time and see if that is the standard first step to solving all problems. I can think as I code, but get too caught up with the pattern and running to find edge cases, rather than thinking through the problem in it's entirety.

I am thinking I'll need the number of digits and can loop over each like in other problems, but we will see.

I came up with a dead simple solution at first that just looped and printed the remainder of sum before then subtracting the value. It missed special cases where subtraction was needed so I had to pivot. What I ended up needing was a way to process each digit at a time and preparing for the next iteration based on specific cases. More if statements and --/++ operators than I'd like but after 1hr 45 I got a v1 passing solution.