https://leetcode.com/problems/integer-to-roman/
🟨Medium

Seven different symbols represent Roman numerals with the following values:

|Symbol|Value|
|---|---|
|I|1|
|V|5|
|X|10|
|L|50|
|C|100|
|D|500|
|M|1000|

Roman numerals are formed by appending the conversions of decimal place values from highest to lowest. Converting a decimal place value into a Roman numeral has the following rules:

- If the value does not start with 4 or 9, select the symbol of the maximal value that can be subtracted from the input, append that symbol to the result, subtract its value, and convert the remainder to a Roman numeral.
- If the value starts with 4 or 9 use the **subtractive form** representing one symbol subtracted from the following symbol, for example, 4 is 1 (`I`) less than 5 (`V`): `IV` and 9 is 1 (`I`) less than 10 (`X`): `IX`. Only the following subtractive forms are used: 4 (`IV`), 9 (`IX`), 40 (`XL`), 90 (`XC`), 400 (`CD`) and 900 (`CM`).
- Only powers of 10 (`I`, `X`, `C`, `M`) can be appended consecutively at most 3 times to represent multiples of 10. You cannot append 5 (`V`), 50 (`L`), or 500 (`D`) multiple times. If you need to append a symbol 4 times use the **subtractive form**.

Given an integer, convert it to a Roman numeral.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** num = 3749

**Output:** "MMMDCCXLIX"

**Explanation:**

3000 = MMM as 1000 (M) + 1000 (M) + 1000 (M)
 700 = DCC as 500 (D) + 100 (C) + 100 (C)
  40 = XL as 10 (X) less of 50 (L)
   9 = IX as 1 (I) less of 10 (X)
Note: 49 is not 1 (I) less of 50 (L) because the conversion is based on decimal places

**Example 2:**

**Input:** num = 58

**Output:** "LVIII"

**Explanation:**

50 = L
 8 = VIII

**Example 3:**

**Input:** num = 1994

**Output:** "MCMXCIV"

**Explanation:**

1000 = M
 900 = CM
  90 = XC
   4 = IV

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= num <= 3999`

---

My Final Solution :
```cpp live:true sym:IntegerToRoman_v5 file:"12.IntegerToRoman.cpp"
std::string IntegerToRoman_v5(int num)
{
	// DIFF 2nd iteration from NeetCode example, using a barebones char[] and pointer manipulation

	char arr[] = {
		// Bytes stored little endian
		'M', '0', 0b11101000,	0b11, // 4 byte rows
		'C', 'M', 0b10000100,	0b11,
		'D', '0', 0b11110100,	0b1,
		'C', 'D', 0b10010000,	0b1,
		'C', '0', 100,			0b0,
		'X', 'C', 90,			0b0,
		'L', '0', 50,			0b0,
		'X', 'L', 40,			0b0,
		'X', '0', 10,			0b0,
		'I', 'X', 9,			0b0,
		'V', '0', 5,			0b0,
		'I', 'V', 4,			0b0,
		'I', '0', 1,			0b0
	};

	std::string returnStr;

	constexpr int stepSize = 4; // Bytes per arr row
	constexpr int range = sizeof(arr) / stepSize * stepSize;

	for (size_t i = 0; i < range; i += stepSize)
	{
		const short value = *(reinterpret_cast<short*>(&arr[i + 2]));
		const int count = num / value;
		
		if (count)
		{
			returnStr.append(count, arr[i]);
			if (arr[i+1] != '0')
			{
				returnStr.append(1, arr[i+1]);
			}
			num %= value;
		}
	}

	return returnStr;
}
```
#### Notes :

So I'll start on paper first this time and see if that is the standard first step to solving all problems. I can think as I code, but get too caught up with the pattern and running to find edge cases, rather than thinking through the problem in it's entirety.

I am thinking I'll need the number of digits and can loop over each like in other problems, but we will see.

I came up with a dead simple solution at first that just looped and printed the remainder of sum before then subtracting the value. It missed special cases where subtraction was needed so I had to pivot. What I ended up needing was a way to process each digit at a time and preparing for the next iteration based on specific cases. More if statements and --/++ operators than I'd like but after 1hr 45 I got a v1 passing solution.

The nested if() logic to check for right, and more right values being 0 is hard to look at, but I did want to get something working before exploring other options.

So before moving on with the problem, I wanted to check out [NeetCode's solution](https://neetcode.io/solutions/integer-to-roman) to the problem. Copying the code initially, I didn't see what was happening but after running it I see the simplicity. After playing around my own version, I was able to simplify with refactoring out extra assignments and variables to get a much better runtime speed.

I iterated again on NeetCode's solution, trying to strip out any class usage to deal directly with a char[] and memory addresses, but the performance degraded. I am wondering if the compiler is able to an optimize std::pair<>[] to the point where it's faster than manipulating bytes using pointers. I am assuming that my reinterpret_cast and pointer incrementing/offsetting prevents such optimizations as unrolling loops, re-arranging process ordering, and re-ordering branching logic. I am not going to learn assembly today, but it's an interesting rabbit hole for another time.

My final solution will be NeetCode's, but refactored to take better advantage of C++ practices to improve performance.

One thing that NetCode's solutions shows is that setting up your data in interesting ways lets you iterate over it nicer but also solve the problem more efficiently or "elegantly", some might say. An even more dramatic example would be the [Math-II](https://neetcode.io/solutions/integer-to-roman) solution where the logic is inlined to return the answer in on long addition sum statement chain.