https://leetcode.com/problems/roman-to-integer/
🟩Easy

Roman numerals are represented by seven different symbols: `I`, `V`, `X`, `L`, `C`, `D` and `M`.

**Symbol**       **Value**
I             1
V             5
X             10
L             50
C             100
D             500
M             1000

For example, `2` is written as `II` in Roman numeral, just two ones added together. `12` is written as `XII`, which is simply `X + II`. The number `27` is written as `XXVII`, which is `XX + V + II`.

Roman numerals are usually written largest to smallest from left to right. However, the numeral for four is not `IIII`. Instead, the number four is written as `IV`. Because the one is before the five we subtract it making four. The same principle applies to the number nine, which is written as `IX`. There are six instances where subtraction is used:

- `I` can be placed before `V` (5) and `X` (10) to make 4 and 9. 
- `X` can be placed before `L` (50) and `C` (100) to make 40 and 90. 
- `C` can be placed before `D` (500) and `M` (1000) to make 400 and 900.

Given a roman numeral, convert it to an integer.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** s = "III"
**Output:** 3
**Explanation:** III = 3.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** s = "LVIII"
**Output:** 58
**Explanation:** L = 50, V= 5, III = 3.

**Example 3:**

**Input:** s = "MCMXCIV"
**Output:** 1994
**Explanation:** M = 1000, CM = 900, XC = 90 and IV = 4.

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= s.length <= 15`
- `s` contains only the characters `('I', 'V', 'X', 'L', 'C', 'D', 'M')`.
- It is **guaranteed** that `s` is a valid roman numeral in the range `[1, 3999]`.

---

My Final Solution :
```cpp
// Complexity O(n), Memory O(1)
// Submitted 22/03/25 6:13pm
// Runtime of 0ms? (100%)?, with RAM usage of ~10MB (~93%)
int RomanToInteger_v4(const std::string& s)
{
	// DIFF Evaluate and increment 2 characters at a time instead of subtracting

	int finalSum = 0;

	for (size_t i = 0; i < s.size(); i++)
	{
		const bool rightValueInRange = i + 1 < s.size();

		switch (s[i])
		{
		case 'I':
			if (rightValueInRange && s[i + 1] == 'V')
			{
				finalSum += 4;
				++i;
			}
			else if (rightValueInRange && s[i + 1] == 'X')
			{
				finalSum += 9;
				++i;
			}
			else
			{
				finalSum += 1;
			}
			break;
		case 'V':
			if (rightValueInRange && s[i + 1] == 'X')
			{
				finalSum += 5;
				++i;
			}
			else
			{
				finalSum += 5;
			}
			break;
		case 'X':
			if (rightValueInRange && s[i + 1] == 'L')
			{
				finalSum += 40;
				++i;
			}
			else if (rightValueInRange && s[i + 1] == 'C')
			{
				finalSum += 90;
				++i;
			}
			else
			{
				finalSum += 10;
			}
			break;
		case 'L':
			if (rightValueInRange && s[i + 1] == 'C')
			{
				finalSum += 50;
				++i;
			}
			else
			{
				finalSum += 50;
			}
			break;
		case 'C':
			if (rightValueInRange && s[i + 1] == 'D')
			{
				finalSum += 400;
				++i;
			}
			else if (rightValueInRange && s[i + 1] == 'M')
			{
				finalSum += 900;
				++i;
			}
			else
			{
				finalSum += 100;
			}
			break;
		case 'D':
			if (rightValueInRange && s[i + 1] == 'M')
			{
				finalSum += 500;
				++i;
			}
			else
			{
				finalSum += 500;
			}
			break;
		case 'M':
			finalSum += 1000;
			break;
		}
	}

	return finalSum;
}
```
#### Notes :

So, the input string is guaranteed to be valid roman numeral characters and the string cannot be empty.

Important note that the roman numeral for 4 is not IIII, but instead VI. I guess I hadn't thought about it but 3 I characters is the longest I have seen.

I know that there will be many cases or if statements to handle the different adjacent letter combinations. I am thinking of handling a current state, or comparing the current and next character to know if addition or subtraction is appropriate.

Version 1 and 2 used maps, but for fun I thought I'd ditch the map and use a switch statement. I needed extra logic to handle specific chars for each roman numeral, but man is it even faster. Now, LeetCode has been giving me 0ms results recently so I can assume some level of inaccuracy, but v1 and v2 both have 10+ ms latency when re-run. What gives? I am assuming the cost of map lookups are the cause as non-contiguous, heap allocated loads using hashing has a cost, but I didn't think it'd make much difference. Now, compiled switch statements are going to make quick work of integer comparison and the specific character checks are also super quick as they are compile time constants. I guess utilizing constants and static const numbers is a really great trick to use when possible, for performance and reduced RAM usage. Not really surprising, but a fun reminder.

One more solution (v4) came to me as I was watching solution videos in LeetCode. Someone had the same solution but said "Looping two characters at a time." in the post title. This gave me the idea to process 2 characters at a time. Looking at the rules of roman numerals, I couldn't consistently do this but because I had the switch statement solution handling specific cases for negation, I figured I could swap the subtraction for the sum of 2 values and increment i when those specific cases came. It's hard to do micro benchmarks but using an average of 50 iterations, v4 has a ~0.1 ms advantage over v3, although they both run sub 1.3ms so who really cares. Still a cool trick though!

Unfortunately LeetCode has been giving weird runtime ms values so I can't trust the results as much. I am just happy that I was able to come up with all solutions on my own, and find ways to improve the algorithm 3 times!