https://leetcode.com/problems/fizz-buzz/
🟩Difficulty

Given an integer `n`, return _a string array_ `answer` _(**1-indexed**) where_:

- `answer[i] == "FizzBuzz"` if `i` is divisible by `3` and `5`.
- `answer[i] == "Fizz"` if `i` is divisible by `3`.
- `answer[i] == "Buzz"` if `i` is divisible by `5`.
- `answer[i] == i` (as a string) if none of the above conditions are true.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** n = 3
**Output:** ["1","2","Fizz"]

**Example 2:**

**Input:** n = 5
**Output:** ["1","2","Fizz","4","Buzz"]

**Example 3:**

**Input:** n = 15
**Output:** ["1","2","Fizz","4","Buzz","Fizz","7","8","Fizz","Buzz","11","Fizz","13","14","FizzBuzz"]

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= n <= 104`

---

My Final Solution :
```cpp live:true sym:FizzBuzz_v2 file:"412.FizzBuzz.cpp"
std::vector<std::string> FizzBuzz_v2(int num)
{
	// DIFF Combined check gets its own statement

	std::vector<std::string> returnStrings;
	returnStrings.reserve(num);

	for (size_t i = 1; i < num + 1; i++)
	{
		if (i % 3 == 0 && i % 5 == 0)
		{
			returnStrings.emplace_back("FizzBuzz");
		}
		else if (i % 3 == 0)
		{
			returnStrings.emplace_back("Fizz");

		}
		else if (i % 5 == 0)
		{
			returnStrings.emplace_back("Buzz");
		}
		else
		{
			returnStrings.emplace_back(std::to_string(i));
		}
	}

	return returnStrings;
}
```
#### Notes :

A classic programming problem that I just had to take a stab at. There is a multithreaded version, but I am good with mono-threaded for now.

So there is some forced redundancy, or so it seems. To have to perform at least one check twice, or use a cache value to store the result and avoid another modulus operation. It's kind of lame, especially where the order matters and we do a % 3 and % 5 check every iteration.

For fun, I tried skipping cases. I got caught skipping on % 3 and % 5, but you can double skip when % 3 && % 5, so that is what I did for solution v3. It might be slightly more efficient, but not by any noticeable or reliably micro-testable amount.

