https://leetcode.com/problems/zigzag-conversion/description/
🟨Medium

The string `"PAYPALISHIRING"` is written in a zigzag pattern on a given number of rows like this: (you may want to display this pattern in a fixed font for better legibility)

P   A   H   N
A P L S I I G
Y   I   R

And then read line by line: `"PAHNAPLSIIGYIR"`
Write the code that will take a string and make this conversion given a number of rows:
string convert(string s, int numRows);

**Example 1:**
**Input:** s = "PAYPALISHIRING", numRows = 3
**Output:** "PAHNAPLSIIGYIR"

**Example 2:**
**Input:** s = "PAYPALISHIRING", numRows = 4
**Output:** "PINALSIGYAHRPI"
**Explanation:**
P     I    N
A   L S  I G
Y A   H R
P     I

**Example 3:**
**Input:** s = "A", numRows = 1
**Output:** "A"

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= s.length <= 1000`
- `s` consists of English letters (lower-case and upper-case), `','` and `'.'`.
- `1 <= numRows <= 1000`

---

My Final Solution :
```cpp
// Submitted 16/03/25 12:08pm
// Runtime of 0ms (100%), with RAM usage of 10.58MB (99.27%)
// Probably a bug in performance capturing, or outlier (ran twice though).
std::string ZigzagConversion_v1(const std::string s, const int numRows)
{
    if (numRows == 1)
    {
        return s;
    }

    std::string returnValue(s);
    returnValue.clear();

    for (size_t row = 0; row < numRows; row++)
    {
        const int stepSize = 2 * (numRows - 1);

        for (size_t counter = row; counter < s.size(); counter += stepSize)
        {
            returnValue.push_back(s[counter]);

            const int index = counter + stepSize - (2 * row);
            if (row > 0 && row < numRows - 1 &&
                index < s.size())
            {
                returnValue.push_back(s[index]);
            }
        }
    }

    return returnValue;
}
```
#### Notes :
This one took a while to see the pattern. Drawing over the example image letters as they snake helped me see what was meant by "zigzag" pattern. After that I could start thinking of implementations.

I've been wondering how a nested for loop may be used in this case, but because of the alternating direction, I didn't see the implementation.

After watching a solution, I did think of a way to loop back to the start of a row to then offset over. I couldn't quiet see the idea fully but had thought of using a 2D grid to write into and read out of using array index row and column values.

In the end I used NeetCode.io answers as I couldn't think of a solution that handled multiple row sizes.
I found this problem to be too novel/new/strange to me to understand at first glance.

The take away for this problem is that LeetCode or general programming problem exposure is great for expanding knowledge of problems that exist, at least in the scope of what is possible in computer programming. I found that this exercise did require me to think differently than normal, which I enjoyed and learned from.

The 2nd NeetCode.io solution was pretty cool to walk through and understand. That is how I could have imagined a naive solution implementation, although I did not think of utilizing a vector of strings in this way. I had thought of a 2D array, but there would be spaces so the push back/append behaviour of a string suits this example well. Key take away: try to think of clever ways to alter output, even without changing how to iterate of the given string argument list.