https://leetcode.com/problems/reverse-integer/description/
🟨Medium

Given a signed 32-bit integer `x`, return `x` _with its digits reversed_. If reversing `x` causes the value to go outside the signed 32-bit integer range `[-231, 231 - 1]`, then return `0`.

**Assume the environment does not allow you to store 64-bit integers (signed or unsigned).**

**Example 1:**
**Input:** x = 123
**Output:** 321

**Example 2:**
**Input:** x = -123
**Output:** -321

**Example 3:**
**Input:** x = 120
**Output:** 21

**Constraints:**

- `-231 <= x <= 231 - 1`

---

My Final Solution :
```cpp
int ReverseInteger_v2(int x)
{
	int32_t returnValue = 0;

	while (x != 0)
	{
		int32_t y = x % 10;

		if (returnValue > INT32_MAX / 10 ||
			returnValue < INT32_MIN / 10)
		{
			return 0;
		}

		returnValue *= 10;
		returnValue += y;
		x /= 10;
	}

	return returnValue;
}
```
#### Notes :
 64-bit values seems off limits, so I'll try to avoid using them, at least for any final submissions. Using int32_t instead.
 
 So I started off by checking how I might check if a value is out of the range for the 32 bit type, thinking that a check to know if (INT32_MAX + 1 > INT32_MAX) would work, but of course it doesn't. A temporary value is created with the value INT32_MAX, then 1 is added which causes the value to rollover and become 0. Another method will be needed for range checks.

I was initially using the loop, while (abs(x) > 9), but ran into an error when a value of -2147483648 was used as input of the first iteration (value of x). This is because the input can be greater than the unsigned max when a negative number, as negative ranges have 1 greater range. This means that using abs(x) can generate a value outside of the supported range of a 32 bit int.

I decided not to add the extra check for the last digit overflowing the returnValue. In public solutions I see that check but was unable to think of a test case to add when I realized that the final digit must be valid or the input would not be valid. There could be an issue where a 64bit input is used and can create the case where the extra check is needed, but the current constraint is a 32 bit input value so comparing 9/10 digits of INT32_MIN and INT32_MAX is sufficient.

This exercise was good practice for shifting number left or right (greater or lesser), as well as thinking of different applications for different bases of numbers as I played around with shifting base 16 numbers just for curiosity. I also value knowing alternative ways to solving number problems instead of using arrays, buffers, collections, etc.