https://leetcode.com/problems/string-to-integer-atoi/
🟨Medium

Implement the `myAtoi(string s)` function, which converts a string to a 32-bit signed integer.

The algorithm for `myAtoi(string s)` is as follows:

1. **Whitespace**: Ignore any leading whitespace (`" "`).
2. **Signedness**: Determine the sign by checking if the next character is `'-'` or `'+'`, assuming positivity if neither present.
3. **Conversion**: Read the integer by skipping leading zeros until a non-digit character is encountered or the end of the string is reached. If no digits were read, then the result is 0.
4. **Rounding**: If the integer is out of the 32-bit signed integer range `[-231, 231 - 1]`, then round the integer to remain in the range. Specifically, integers less than `-231` should be rounded to `-231`, and integers greater than `231 - 1` should be rounded to `231 - 1`.

Return the integer as the final result.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** s = "42"

**Output:** 42

**Explanation:**

The underlined characters are what is read in and the caret is the current reader position.
Step 1: "42" (no characters read because there is no leading whitespace)
         ^
Step 2: "42" (no characters read because there is neither a '-' nor '+')
         ^
Step 3: "42" ("42" is read in)
           ^

**Example 2:**

**Input:** s = " -042"

**Output:** -42

**Explanation:**

Step 1: "   -042" (leading whitespace is read and ignored)
            ^
Step 2: "   -042" ('-' is read, so the result should be negative)
             ^
Step 3: "   -042" ("042" is read in, leading zeros ignored in the result)
               ^

**Example 3:**

**Input:** s = "1337c0d3"

**Output:** 1337

**Explanation:**

Step 1: "1337c0d3" (no characters read because there is no leading whitespace)
         ^
Step 2: "1337c0d3" (no characters read because there is neither a '-' nor '+')
         ^
Step 3: "1337c0d3" ("1337" is read in; reading stops because the next character is a non-digit)
             ^

**Example 4:**

**Input:** s = "0-1"

**Output:** 0

**Explanation:**

Step 1: "0-1" (no characters read because there is no leading whitespace)
         ^
Step 2: "0-1" (no characters read because there is neither a '-' nor '+')
         ^
Step 3: "0-1" ("0" is read in; reading stops because the next character is a non-digit)
          ^

**Example 5:**

**Input:** s = "words and 987"

**Output:** 0

**Explanation:**

Reading stops at the first non-digit character 'w'.

**Constraints:**

- `0 <= s.length <= 200`
- `s` consists of English letters (lower-case and upper-case), digits (`0-9`), `' '`, `'+'`, `'-'`, and `'.'`.

---

My Final Solution :
```cpp live:true sym:"StringToInteger_v3" file:"8.StringToInteger.cpp"
int StringToInteger_v3(std::string s)
{
	int signMultiplier = 1;
	int currentIndex = 0;

	while (currentIndex < s.size() && s[currentIndex] == ' ')
	{
		++currentIndex;
	}

	if (s[currentIndex] == '-')
	{
		signMultiplier = -1;
		++currentIndex;
	}
	else if (s[currentIndex] == '+')
	{
		++currentIndex;
	}

	int returnValue = 0;
	while (currentIndex < s.size() &&
		s[currentIndex] >= '0' && s[currentIndex] <= '9')
	{
		const int digit = s[currentIndex] - '0';

		if (returnValue > (INT_MAX - digit) / 10)
		{
			if (signMultiplier == 1)
			{
				return INT32_MAX;
			}
			else
			{
				return INT32_MIN;
			}
		}
		returnValue = returnValue * 10 + digit;

		++currentIndex;
	}

	return returnValue * signMultiplier;
}
```
#### Notes :

Going to need 32 bit int range checks to know if a value goes outside the top or bottom bounds. Consider handling signed an unsigned values.

May need to trim, or otherwise sanitize and validate string contents before evaluating.

The out of bound checks get me, especially since they are handled slightly differently for positive and negative numbers (> becomes <, and negative range is 1 larger).

So in the end, trimming or modifying the original string s wasn't necessary, and would have been less efficient. I'd imagine that is always the case, but maybe a different data structure, in a different context could be an exception to the rule.

Once I figured out the input sanitizing, things got much simpler. Instead of handling cases like multiple whitespace arrays, non-numeric characters, multiple arithmetic signs, just simplify and find the first valid character and then look until we run out of numbers or characters in the string. Much simpler.

The [example solution](https://leetcode.com/problems/string-to-integer-atoi/solutions/6000040/1-ms-runtime-beats-100-user-step-by-steps-solution-easy-to-understand/) I saw and copied from laid things out so nicely. We can simply shift an index value past all whitespace, then check for a math sign, then loop over numbers and do a value check in the positive range that doesn't require negative number handling, but still supports the valid negative range. Then multiply the result by the sign to support negative return values. Pretty straight forward and a whole lot less code than my 2 solutions.